docs - convertTimezone, datetimeAdd, datetimeSubtract, and datetimeDiff (#26685)
metabase/metabase: docs/questions/query-builder/expressions/converttimezone.md

---
title: ConvertTimezone
---

> # ConvertTimezone

Reviewer: I'm not very good at wording but here is a diagram of how we process convertTimezone depending on the input.

![Screenshot 2022-11-25 at 17 36 48](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25661381/203964971-89eb8539-c500-48a1-ba04-b463c1e71125.png)

Reviewer: [convert_timezone.zip](https://github.com/metabase/metabase/files/10091711/convert_timezone.zip)
just drop this into draw.io if you want to view the diagram

`convertTimezone` assigns a new time zone to a datetime value (by adding to, or subtracting from the original datetime).

| Syntax                                                                                                    | Example                                                       |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| `convertTimezone(column, target, source)`                                                                 | `convertTimezone("December 28, 2022, 12:00:00", "EST, "PST")` |

> | Assigns the target time zone to your datetime column. You can optionally specify a source time zone too.  | `December 28, 2022, 9:00:00`                                  |

Reviewer: what do you mean by assign? 
My understanding of assign is like appending to a string without changing anything.

If that's the case then we don't simply just assign the timezone, but we actually `shift` the time so that the input column is displayed in the `target-timezone`

```

3. **Metabase Report Time** (if you know that Metabase reports in PST)

```
convertTimezone([Metabase Report Time (PST)], 'EST', 'PST')
```

Once you've created **Team Report Time (EST)**, you could convert it again to a **Local Report Time (GMT)** (maybe for a teammate on the move):

```
convertTimezone([Team Report Time (EST)], 'GMT', 'EST')
```

Before you do time zone conversions, make sure you know the source time zone that you're working with. The example here shows you how the source time zones can be different depending on the system that it comes from (original event capture, database, Metabase), but your datasets might not make it so obvious. 

When you make a custom column with a new time zone, it's usually a good idea to name the column with that time zone. We promise that this a life a lot easier when someone inevitably asks why certain numbers don't match.

## Accepted data types

| [Data type](https://www.metabase.com/learn/databases/data-types-overview#examples-of-data-types) | Works with `convertTimezone`  |
| ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| String                  | ❌                   |
| Number                  | ❌                   |

> | Timestamp               | ✅                   |

Reviewer: can we make a distinciton between `timestamp with time zone` and `timestamp without time zone`?

Author: This table is the same across all the custom expression docs. It's just there to help people do a quick check for common data type errors, so won't expand it into more detail than this (otherwise we could make a case to split out the other data types too!).

I'll add a note that the function will error if you provide a `source` parameter on `timestamp with time zone`.

| Boolean                 | ❌                   |
| JSON                    | ❌                   |

This table uses `timestamp` and `datetime` interchangeably. If your dates and times are stored as strings or numbers in your database, you can [cast them to datetimes](../data-modeling/metadata-editing#casting-to-a-specific-data-type) from the Data Model page.

## Related functions

This section covers functions and formulas that work the same way as the Metabase `convertTimezone` expression, with notes on how to choose the best option for your use case.

- [SQL](#sql)
- [Spreadsheets](#spreadsheets)
- [Python](#python)

### SQL

When you run a question using the [query builder](https://www.metabase.com/glossary/query_builder), Metabase will convert your graphical query settings (filters, summaries, etc.) into a query, and run that query against your database to get your results.

If our [datetime sample data](#creating-custom-report-dates) is stored in a PostgreSQL database:

```sql

> SELECT original_time::TIMESTAMP AT TIME ZONE 'EST' AS team_report_time_est

Reviewer: it's not clear to me what is the type of `original_time` is it a timestamptz or timestamp type?

For example, if you're tracking user logins over time, you probably won't run your business differently if some logins get counted on Mondays instead of Tuesdays. However, if you're using Metabase to do something precise, like your taxes, you (and the government) will probably care a lot more about the difference between transactions that occurred on Dec 31 vs. Jan 1.

| Syntax                                                               | Example                                                       |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| `convertTimezone(column, target, source)`                            | `convertTimezone("December 28, 2022, 12:00:00", "EST, "PST")` |
| Shifts a datetime from the source time zone to the target time zone. | `December 28, 2022, 9:00:00`                                  |

## Parameters

- `target` is the time zone you want to assign to your column.

> - The name of the `target` time zone depends on your database. For example, you may have to use "Canada/Eastern" instead of "EST".

Reviewer 2: Should be a single list time.

- `source` is only a required parameter if you have timestamps without time zones in your database. See [Limitations](#limitations) for more info.

## Creating custom report dates

Let's say that you have some time series data that's stored in one or more time zones (**Source Time**). You want to create custom reporting dates for a team that lives in EST. We recommend labeling `convertTimezone` columns with the name of the target time zone (or adding the time zone to the metadata of a model).

| Source Time                        | Team Report Time (EST)       |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| December 28, 2022, 10:00:00        | December 28, 2022, 07:00:00  |
| December 28, 2022, 21:00:00        | December 28, 2022, 19:00:00  |
| December 27, 2022, 08:00:00        | December 27, 2022, 05:00:00  |

If you're unsure about the time zone for **Source Time**, you should use two `convertTimezone` expressions to create **Team Report Time (EST)** :

```

> convertTimezone(convertTimezone([Source Time], 'UTC'), 'EST', 'UTC')

Reviewer 2: Can we provide an explanatory counterfactual here to explain why someone would do this? That is: what would/could happen if we didn't know the source time zone, and we didn't nest `convertTimezone` expressions to convert the original to UTC?

(Aside: this baselining to UTC seems like something `covertTimezone` should do for you.)

Author: Gonna remove this suggestion. I double checked the logic for `convertTimezone` and I think I misremembered this comment from Cal's explanation (should go in the `now` doc instead):

> If you want to do comparisons between a timestamp with time zone and timestamp without time zone, you should convert them to the same time zone first.

```

- The inner `convertTimezone` converts your column to UTC (basically, you're setting your own "source" time zone).
- The outer `convertTimezone` converts the UTC output to your actual target time zone (EST).

> - You must provide the `source` parameter in the outer expression (because the output of the inner `convertTimezone` expression is a timestamp without time zone metadata).

Reviewer 2: As I said above, we should be explicit about this timezoneless return type in the definition above (plus it's good to reiterate here as well).

You should only write something like `convertTimezone([Source Time], 'EST')` if you're certain that:

- **Source Time** is stored _with_ time zone metadata in your database, and
- your Metabase displays datetimes or timestamps in your database's time zone.

> See [Limitations](#limitations) if you're interested in more gory details.

Author: Definitely.

---
title: ConvertTimezone
---

> # ConvertTimezone

Author: @qnkhuat @calherries 

Could you please take another look at `convertTimezone`? I've made a lot of updates since last time. I think this doc is the most complex, so it should be a good catch-all for timestamp nuances in general (I'll follow up if I need to generalize the feedback to any other datetime docs).

By end of week would be amazing, but I think these docs can wait until next week too. Thank you!

Reviewer: In general, I think this is much clearer. only have some nitty comments :)

| Shifts a timestamp from the source time zone to the target time zone. | Returns the value `2022-12-28T09:00:00`, displayed as `December 28, 2022 9:00 AM` |

Timestamps and time zones are rather nasty to work with (it's easy to make mistakes, and difficult to catch them), so you should only try to use `convertTimezone` if the interpretation of your data is very sensitive to time-based cutoffs.

For example, if you're tracking user logins over time, you probably won't run your business differently if some logins get counted on Mondays instead of Tuesdays. However, if you're using Metabase to do something precise, like your taxes, you (and the government) will probably care a lot more about the difference between transactions that occurred on Dec 31 vs. Jan 1.

## Parameters

`column` can be any of:
- The name of a timestamp column,
- a custom expression that returns a [timestamp](#accepted-data-types), or
- a string in the format `"YYYY-MM-DD` or `"YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS"`.

`target`:
- The name of the time zone you want to assign to your column.

> - Time zone names are database-dependent (such as "Canada/Eastern" vs. "EST").

Reviewer: To be precise but we use the `tz database`.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones

This is what most DBs use, only sqlserver accepts WindowTimezone which is a bit different (`Pacific Standard Time` vs `PST`)

Do you think we should have this information included?

> `source`:

Reviewer: should we have a description for this like we have for `target` too?

- Optional for columns or expressions with the data type `timestamp with time zone`. 
- Required for columns or expressions with the data type `timestamp without time zone`. 
- For more info, see [Accepted data types](#accepted-data-types).

## Creating custom report dates

Let's say that you have some time series data that's stored in one or more time zones (**Source Time**). You want to create custom reporting dates for a team that lives in EST.

| Source Time                        | Team Report Time (EST)       |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| December 28, 2022, 10:00:00        | December 28, 2022, 07:00:00  |
| December 28, 2022, 21:00:00        | December 28, 2022, 19:00:00  |
| December 27, 2022, 08:00:00        | December 27, 2022, 05:00:00  |

If **Source Time** is stored as a `timestamp with time zone` or a `timestamp with offset`, you only need to provide the `target` time zone:

```
convertTimezone([Source Time], 'EST')
```

> If **Source Time** is stored as a `timestamp without time zone`, you _must_ provide the `source` time zone as 'UTC':

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If **Source Time** is stored as a `timestamp without time zone`, you _must_ provide the `source` time zone ( in this case it is "UTC" ):
```

I feel like the combination of `must`  + a specific timezone could give the wrong idea that it has to be `UTC` all the time?

Author: @qnkhuat Yes, I remember being confused about this! I wasn't sure if `timestamp without time zone` would get treated as UTC by default.

What about this:
> If **Source Time** is stored as a `timestamp without time zone`, you _must_ provide the `source` time zone (which will depend on your database time zone):

---
title: ConvertTimezone
---

# ConvertTimezone

`convertTimezone` shifts a timestamp into a specified time zone by adding or subtracting the right interval from the timestamp.

| Syntax                                                                | Example                                                                           |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `convertTimezone(column, target, source)`                             | `convertTimezone("2022-12-28T12:00:00", "Canada/Pacific", "Canada/Eastern")`      |
| Shifts a timestamp from the source time zone to the target time zone. | Returns the value `2022-12-28T09:00:00`, displayed as `December 28, 2022 9:00 AM` |

> Timestamps and time zones are rather nasty to work with (it's easy to make mistakes, and difficult to catch them), so you should only try to use `convertTimezone` if the interpretation of your data is very sensitive to time-based cutoffs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Timestamps and time zones are rather nasty to work with (it's easy to make mistakes, and difficult to catch them), so you should only try to use `convertTimezone` if the interpretation of your data is sensitive to time-based cutoffs.
```

For example, say you have a table with one row for each person who visited your website. It's hard to tell, just from looking at `December 28, 2022, 12:00:00PM`, whether the "raw" timestamp is:

- stored using your database's time zone (usually UTC),
- stored without time zone metadata (for example, if the website visitor is in HKT, then the timestamp `December 28, 2022, 12:00:00` might "implicitly" use Hong Kong time),
- _displayed_ in your Metabase report time zone.

For more gory details, see [Limitations](#limitations).

## Accepted data types

| [Data type](https://www.metabase.com/learn/databases/data-types-overview#examples-of-data-types) | Works with `convertTimezone`  |
| ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| String                  | ❌                   |
| Number                  | ❌                   |
| Timestamp               | ✅                   |
| Boolean                 | ❌                   |
| JSON                    | ❌                   |

> If your timestamps are stored as strings or numbers in your database, you can [cast them to timestamps](../../../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md#casting-to-a-specific-data-type) from the Data Model page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your timestamps are stored as strings or numbers in your database, an admin can [cast them to timestamps](../../../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md#casting-to-a-specific-data-type) from the Data Model page.
```
